# Chomsky-Hierarchy in Python
According to Noam Chomosky, there are four types of grammars − Type 0, Type 1, Type 2, and Type 3.

differ as follows:	 

| Grammar Type  | Grammar Accepted         | Automaton                |
| ------------- |:------------------------:| ------------------------:|
| Type 0        | Unrestricted grammar     | Turing Machine           |
| Type 1        | Context-sensitive grammar| Linear-bounded automaton |
| Type 2        | Context-free grammar     | Pushdown automaton       |
| Type 3        | Regular grammar          | Finite state automaton   |

### Type 3 - Regular Languages 
As we have discussed, a regular language is one which can be represented by a regular grammar, described using a regular expression, or accepted using an NFA or a DFA. 

### Type 2 - Context-Free Languages 
A Context-Free Grammar (CFG) is one whose production rules are of the form: 
The productions must be in the form A → γ
where A ∈ N (Non terminal)
and γ ∈ (T ∪ N)* (String of terminals and non-terminals).

### Type 1 - Context-sensitive grammar
The productions must be in the form
α A β → α γ β
where A ∈ N (Non-terminal)
and α, β, γ ∈ (T ∪ N)* (Strings of terminals and non-terminals)
The strings α and β may be empty, but γ must be non-empty.
The rule S → ε is allowed if S does not appear on the right side of any rule. The languages generated by these grammars are recognized by a linear bounded automaton.

### Type 0 - Unrestricted grammar
The productions have no restrictions. They are any phase structure grammar including all formal grammars.
They generate the languages that are recognized by a Turing machine.
The productions can be in the form of α → β where α is a string of terminals and nonterminals with at least one non-terminal and α cannot be null. β is a string of terminals and non-terminals.
